Business Intelligence for Designing Restaurant Marketing Strategy: A Case Study In this study we design marketing strategy for a restaurant in Surabaya. The restaurant is a café restaurant, which targets mid-low consumer. The main problem for that restaurant is there has never been a specific marketing strategy. Promotions that have been applied so far are not directed and have no impact on sales because they are not based on any strategy. The application of business intelligence with Power Business Intelligent (Power BI) is expected to be a way for restaurants to predict consumer’s consumption patterns. Additionally, we also model the consumption pattern using Market Basket Analysis. Consumer’s consumption patterns captured used for designing the right marketing strategy with the 4P (Product, Place, Price, Promotion) concept. It was found that some of the restaurant menu’ had a unique relationship and could be used as a promotion to increase sales. Other results, in segment consumers there are children's and office worker. All information is supported using Power BI dashboard that expected to make the restaurant’ executives easier to analyze changes in sales based on the occurrence of events and activities Business owners in any field need to be one step ahead to face new wave consumers [1]. New wave consumers want something that is personalized and customized. Big data analysis makes it easier to find out consumer transaction patterns  more  specifically  and  personally.  Market  basket  analysis  with  association  rules  helps  owners  know  consumer’s personal need and if captured can be used to design the right marketing strategy. The object used in this research is a restaurant in Surabaya with mid-low targeting.  In the current condition there is never been a specific marketing strategy. The promotions that have been applied are not directed and have no impact on sales because they are not based on any marketing strategy. Moreover, this problem brought the menu variations not conceptualized. The number of menus offered is 106 that may cause confused consumer of ordering food and not optimal profit obtained The aim of this research is to design marketing design by predicting consumer transaction pattern. Pattern collected processed  through  one  of  big  data  analysis  method,  market  basket  analysis.  The  result  will  be  visualized  with  dashboard, so the restaurant owner could analyze costumer transaction pattern and faster in act especially at making promotion. 