Extreme Programming in development of specific software The paper shows experiences with using Extreme Programming (XP) for specific projects. XP practices Test-Driven Development, pair programming, short interaction, a team code ownership and acceptance tests. Author writes about possibilities of information technologies when improving communicative skills of children with specific disorders, such as autistic spectrum disorders,  Down  syndrome,  mental  retardation,  etc.  The  development  of  an  application  stemming  from  the  communication  system  PECS  (The  Picture  Exchange  Communication  System)  and  its  Czech  variant  VOKS  is  the  base  of  this  paper  to  show  specificity of the development and verification of software for the given group of handicapped users. The paper shows suitability of using agile methods of software development for a concrete application which is designed for users with specific disorders. It  tries to show advantages and disadvantages of new methodologies, particularly Extreme Programming. This agile method prefers fast reaction to a change before the plan completion, which proved to be important in the case of the developed software. Therewere  plenty  of  changes  and  new  requirements  during  the  development,  and  their  solution  was  more  important  for  the  output  quality than following the time schedule of the development. Use of information and communication technologies has reached massive expansion recently. Computer users are to  be  found  in  every  social  and  professional  group.  Computers  simplify  a  lot  of  work  tasks,  make  methods  of  communication easier and more accessible, intermediate new information, etc. These modern technologies can play a  role  of  important  supporting  and  compensational  means  for  a  group  of  users  with  specific  needs.  It  is  mainly  people  with  some  mental  and  health  problems  who  face  difficulties  with  communication,  and  common  means  of  communication  are  usually  unusable  for  them.  Computers  can  act  as  a  positive  agent  in  such  cases.  However,  hardware and software must be adjusted to the specific needs and it is not possible to implement experience gained and applied with common groups of users. There  is  a  potential  group  of  users  with  specific  disorders  who  could  make  use  of  the  development  of  communication  skills.  E.g.  people  with  autistic  spectrum  disorders,  Down  syndrome,  forms  of  mental  retardation  and  other  development  defects  which  cause  problems  to  learn  and  use  spoken  language,  written  text,  and  other  commonly used means of communication.  Various methodics bringing interesting results have been worked out to develop  communication  skills  of  people  with  the  above  mentioned  disorders.  For  instance,  such  methodics  is  the  system PECS (The Picture Exchange Communication System) and its Czech variation VOKS. The base is a use of pictures  representing  particular  concepts,  things,  activities.  The  user  gradually  becomes  familiar with new concepts pictures,  which  are  then  incorporated  in  their  list.  Choosing  pictures  and  placing  them  on  a  sentence  strip  helps  them learn to create even simple sentences