Lung Cancer Classification and Prediction Using MachineLearning and Image Processing Lung cancer is a potentially lethal illness. Cancer detection continues to be a challenge for medical professionals. The true cause ofcancer and its complete treatment have still not been discovered. Cancer that is caught early enough can be treated. Imageprocessing methods such as noise reduction, feature extraction, identification of damaged regions, and maybe a comparisonwith data on the medical history of lung cancer are used to locate portions of the lung that have been impacted by cancer. Thisresearch shows an accurate classification and prediction of lung cancer using technology that is enabled by machine learning andimage processing. To begin, photos need to be gathered. In the experimental investigation, 83 CT scans from 70 distinct patientswere utilized as the dataset. The geometric meanfilter is used during picture preprocessing. As a consequence, image quality isenhanced. TheK-means technique is then used to segment the images. The part of the image may be found using thissegmentation. Then, classification methods using machine learning are used. For the classification, ANN, KNN, and RF aresome of the machine learning techniques that were used. It is found that the ANN model is producing more accurate resultsfor predicting lung cancer One of the most lethal types of the disease, lung cancer, isresponsible for the passing away of about one million peo-ple every year. The current state of affairs in the world ofmedicine makes it absolutely essential to perform lungnodule identification on chest CT scans. This is due tothe fact that lung nodules are becoming increasingly com-mon. As a direct result of this, the deployment of CADsystems is required in order to accomplish the objectiveof early lung cancer identification [1].When doing a CT scan, sophisticated X-ray equipment isutilized in order to capture images of the human body froma number of different angles. Following this, the images arefed into a computer, which processes them in such a wayas to produce a cross-sectional view of the internal organsand tissues of the body [2].A CAD approach was trained and assessed in two sepa-rate experiments. One research used a computer simulationusing ground truth that was generated by computers. In thiswork, the cardiac-torso (XCAT) digital phantom was used toreplicate 300 CT scans. The second research made use of patient-based ground truth using human subjects andimplanted spherical nodules of varied sizes (i.e., 3-10 mmin diameter) at random inside the lung area of the simulatedpictures. CT images from the LIDC-IDRI dataset were usedto create the CAD technique. 888 CT pictures left for pro-cessing after CT scans with a wall thickness of more than2.5 mm were disregarded. In all investigations, a 10-foldcross-validation approach was used to assess network hyper-parameterization and generalization. The detection sensitiv-ities were measured in response to the average false positives(FPs) per picture to assess the overall accuracy of the CADapproach. Using the free-receiver response operating char-acteristic (FROC) curve, the detection accuracy in thepatient research was further evaluated in 9 previously pub-lished CAD investigations. The mean and standard errorbetween the anticipated value and ground truth were usedto measure the localization and diameter estimate accura-cies. In all investigations, the average outcomes throughoutthe 10 cross-validation folds showed that the CAD approachhad a high level of detection accuracy. In the patient trial, thecorresponding sensitivities were 90.0 percent and 95.4 per-cent, showing superiority in the FROC curve analysis overmany  traditional  and  CNN-based  lung  nodule  CADapproaches. In both investigations, the nodule localizationand diameter estimation errors were fewer than 1 mm. TheCAD approach that was created was highly efficient in termsof computing
